For your final project in this course, you must implement an agent to play the game of Carrom. The agent must demonstrate proficiency both in 1-player mode (to clear the board using a minimal number of strikes) and when playing an adversary in 2-player mode.





CARROM SIMULATOR



By now you are familiar with the Carrom simulator that your TAs have developed:



  https://github.com/samiranrl/Carrom_rl.





TEAMS



You will work in the same teams as you did for Programming Assignment 4.





SUBMISSION



Each team must make exactly one submission through Moodle (that is, one team member must submit).



Suppose your team is called TeamName. You must submit a directory called TeamName, which contains all the source and executable files of your agent. The directory must contain a script titled start_agent.py, which must take in command line arguments in the same format as the identically-named script provided in the code. You are free to build upon the sample python agent provided, or otherwise to implement an agent in any programming language of your choice.



Your code will be tested by running an experiment that calls start_agent.py in your directory: before you submit, make sure you can successfully run start_experiment.py on the departmental machines (sl2-*.cse.iitb.ac.in), wherein YOUR SCRIPT start_agent.py is called. Test both 1-player and 2-player modes. Internally, your agent is free to apply different methods in 1-player and 2-player modes.



Include a description of your agent in a file called report.pdf, which is to be included in the TeamName directory. In the report, describe the architecture of your agent and the procedure you adopted to optimise its performance. Provide references to relevant literature, and also cite any libraries and code snippets you have utilised.



In summary: you must submit your TeamName directory (compressed as TeamName.tar.gz) through Moodle. The directory must contain start_agent.py, along with all the sources and executables for the agent, as well as a report.pdf file.





EVALUATION



Your agent will be tested both in 1-player and 2-player modes. In 1-player mode, it will be evaluated for the average number of strikes it takes to clear the board. In 2-player mode, it will be paired against other agents and evaluated over a large number of games (half as Player 1, half as Player 2). For each strike, your agent may take a maximum of 500 milliseconds to convey its action to the server. 



Your marks will depend on the performance of your agent in 1-player and 2-player modes, as well as the report you have submitted. The report will be evaluated for the technical significance of the ideas presented, soundness of the methodology adopted, clarity of the presentation, and the quality of the writing.



The instructor may look at your source code to corroborate the results obtained by your agent, and may also call you to a face-to-face session to explain your code.





DEADLINE AND RULES



Your submission is due by 11.55 p.m., Tuesday, November 15.  You will get a score of zero if your code is not received by the deadline.



Your team must work alone on this assignment. Do not share any code (whether yours or code you have found on the Internet) with other teams. Do not discuss the design of your agent with anybody outside your team.



You will not be allowed to alter your code in any way after the submission deadline. Before submission, make sure that it runs on the sl2 machines.





FEEDBACK



The TAs have coded up the simulator in the short span of a few weeks, and in spite of their best efforts, it is entirely possible that there are inconsistencies and bugs in the code. Do help this project by bringing up any such issues either on the relevant Github page:



    https://github.com/samiranrl/Carrom_rl/issues.



If you report a bug, provide the steps to reproduce the bug. The instructor and TAs will do their best to resolve issues (which might necessitate updates to the code) in a reasonable way, and appreciate your cooperation.





USE OF CODE FOR RESEARCH PURPOSES



Your instructor and TAs would like to use your submissions for the purposes of research. Specifically, they intend to build a library of agents for playing carrom, and extract measurements when these agents play in single-agent mode, and against each other. Agents and will be kept anonymous.



By default, the instructor assumes that you allow the addition of your agent into the library. If, however, you do not wish for your agent to be included, let the instructor and TAs know by sending them e-mail.


